what i'm going to do next is i'm going
to open up the the
hood and
take a look
at how things work maybe underneath
that includes a couple of teasers to
additional features that i won't be
showing you today um but you'll still
learn a couple of data like commands in
passing
but it will be mostly about yeah
explaining how the version control tools
work that that we are dealing with
now
the question that you might have asked
yourself is why are there two version
control tools at work
and the reason
is that one is not enough when we're
handling large files
git is the industry standard and science
standard for version controlling stuff
but it does not handle large files well
to
give you a simplified overview of what
git
does underneath the hood to version
control files is
it creates snapshots of your git
repository of your datalet dataset so
each of these version one version two
version three is one point in time
in your git repository where you ran for
example the commit or data let's say and
what git does is creating snapshots of
the files and their changes
and
whenever a file change for example file
a
file a to file a1
this
difference will be included in the
snapshot and when a file does not change
for example file b isn't changed in
version 2 and still file b and it's just
a pointer to the previous version of the
file um and it's not
not snapshotted and those snapshots they
contain
the
changes that
happened in between file versions if
possible in a really
efficient and storage
saving
way because git is made to handle
text files well it has really efficient
strategies to internally represent any
differences that occur between
um different versions
of
text files like code like software
and so forth so what that means is that
um over time with every little commit
the snapshots in your repositories grow
a little bit not by much like if you do
it in a standard repository just with
text files everything is small because
it's a text file and
git handles text files really well it
has efficient storage strategies to
store the deltas to store the to store
the differences um
between versions
the problem happens whenever you start
to include files that are
either not text files like binary files
for example brain images eg data
whatever kind of files or data you're
acquiring in your research
and or when these files are really large
it's worse when they're both binary and
large
so what happens with git's snapshot
system if you were to include a five
gigabyte brain image into your vision
history is for one the first snapshot
where this file is included is already
five gigabytes large that's a lot
um but also because the rain image isn't
a text file whenever you change this
brain image and that could be a really
minor change it could be just
a
[Music]
change in the header information
or something then it does not have a
strategy to represent this change
efficiently and what it does is it needs
to store the complete file in a new
snapshot so your
snapshots have grown by five gigabytes
with this um
new
uh
change
um
that per se will not bring it to its
knees if you do this really often with a
lot of files with hundreds of
of files um with
like i don't know 10 20 30 gigabytes it
will still work fine after a while it
will get sluggish and you are able to
kill your git repository if you add too
much data to it but it's it's not the
worst what makes it inconvenient is that
your repository grows uh specifically
the snapshots are stored in this
hidden.git directory
and whenever you share your dataset with
any other person what they need to
retrieve for example with a download is
the complete
uh snapshot history the complete
revision history you they want to have
all of the revision history they want to
be able to see everything and when they
want to obtain that uh and a data set
that
in a git repository that includes a lot
of large files it will take a lot of
time if you
were to version control 50 gigabytes of
data a negative repository which is not
a good idea you could do this but it's
not a good idea then anyone you share
your data set with needs to download 50
gigabytes of
data and that's
super slow and it will make a lot of
operations in this git repository
incredibly sluggish and if you were to
push this further more files more data
you will eventually become
or get to a stage where your git
repository is broken
um the next reason why this is really
not a good idea is that the repository
hosting services that you may want to
use in order to expose your work or
share your work or collaborate with
others they have a problem with large
files
if you ever accidentally committed a
two-large file into your git repository
and then you want to send it up to
github you will see a message like that
github
a git repository hosting service has an
internal limit in file size so git
doesn't have it
at least it doesn't enforce it
it just has sensible defaults but github
has a strict limit and when your
files exceed this limit you will not be
able to push any changes to github and
that's an incredibly inconvenient
problem because when you revert a commit
you actually don't get that
large data out of your revision history
it's quite a difficult endeavor to um to
completely get rid of files that you
have committed into your git history
with git
that i wouldn't recommend um
you to be in a position
to to to do this um
so that's quite quite sad and that's the
reason why uh we use git nx and get nx
is the tool that enables us to version
control large files alongside a lot of
small files
using it but
essentially without putting the large
files contents into git's snapshots and
thus
making sure that our git repository
stays performant and that operations
that are done to share this git
repository are super fast and lean
and to demonstrate how it works i'm
going to quickly show you how you clone
data sets so how you can obtain
uh
other people's data sets and that is
done with a data led clone command this
data clone command can point to a local
path but it can also point to a github
url for example you can go to github and
clone a data set
that contains all of the data from the
human connectom project so if you ever
want to use that data then you can get
it as a digital data set
and here's how that looks like
just in
motion here's a git repository you can
get its url and then you can take that
url and put it into a datalit loan
command
this cloning
you can also do it with a git clone by
the way
is uh really fast even though this study
here is an imaging study with dozens of
gigabytes of files
and if you take a look into this data
set after you have installed it that's
what we call it you can see that it
contains all of these imaging files that
you would typically expect in
for example a bit struck with structured
neural imaging data set now importantly
it was really fast and the contents of
these
files
um
need to be retrieved in order to
actually trigger the download that
obtains you the data that they track and
a data lab get command on any of those
files or any directory or the complete
data set will trigger the download that
is necessary to actually obtain
the
um
the the
version controlled large files
content
that's a little bit
counter-intuitive and not what you
expect when you're used to cloning git
repositories because when you clone a
git repository you know you can see the
contents of files with um
data data sets this is not always the
case
so
the
data set that you clone is very very
lean it's very fast to install and there
is something that you can simplify as
metadata which is
file names nothing more than file names
and an internal record of where they are
available from
but not the file content that actually
belongs to those files so this data set
that i've just um cloned if i were to
look at how much space does it take up
on my system it's just a fraction of the
actual file contents that are tracked
with it just 18 megabytes instead of i'm
not sure 60 gigabytes or something
but any file content that i need i can
retrieve on demand using a command that
is called data lit get
and i can point that to files i can
point that to directories i can point
that to complete datasets the immediate
advantage that this has
just independent of
any
functionality of version control tools
here
is that you can have access to more data
on your computer than you have space so
for example
if i were to clone the enki data set
from our internal data management server
then on my disk it's
1.5 gigabyte
but the complete data set is more than
1.5 terabyte that i have actionable
access to
if i were to clone the hp hcp data set
um it's a really large data set it would
actually take up like 50 gigabytes
because it's
um
i
way more than 15 million files but that
would give me actionable access to 200
terabytes of file content
without having to store them locally
which is really quite neat
and what is more
whenever i have retrieved a file content
using data.get
i can drop it again in case i don't need
it anymore so what i've gotten from
somewhere i don't actually need to know
where
can
be
dropped to
to free the disk space that has been
used up by that content and when i do
this the file name this metadata this
file availability metadata stays behind
and i can re-obtain it using get
whenever i need it
that's um especially need for
for example data analysis where i can
just include a data type command at the
end and at the start of my script that
ensures that the relevant data is
obtained and then dropped once i have
done my analysis and this is also
something well this is also one way it
was done in
reproducible paper preview that i've
shown you the analysis itself takes care
that the data it needs is actually there
and the reason for this weird behavior
for this
file content that is just available on
demand and comes as metadata file names
when you're cloning a data set that's
because this file content is stored in
git nx instead of git so your data set
has contents that are either stored in
one of the true tools either get
organics and if you just create a data
set without any configuration then
everything in your dataset
will actually be nx that's the default
and the reason for this is that um those
two tools they
um provide different advantages for
different files and git enix is a tool
that can handle every single type of
file
well it doesn't matter what type
binary text file what what size small
large
um what what privacy concerns are about
the forget nx handles all of them
that's why that's a default
git
handles small files well though so any
text or any code can very well go into
git it's actually useful
um but uh
core differences between git and git
enix are that
the file contents that you put into git
are actually in the git history so if
you were to browse you get history then
you can see all of the files changes
like we did in the readme in this
revision log and this is not the case
for annex content contact contents and i
will show you i will show you how that
looks in a minute
anything that's kept in git is also
stuff that's immediately available right
after a clone and it is shared with
every single dataset clone so if you
have file contents that
have some like special sensitive data
participant information and stuff like
that uh passwords in case you were to
store them in text files or something
like that then you can give them to get
annex and that ensures that you can
keep those files private on if per
profile level and not exposing the
contents of those files to the revision
history which can be depending on field
of study a really useful thing so
um as a as a like
rule of thumb it's useful to keep small
um text files in git especially those
that you frequently modify
readme files later usage agreements and
so forth but large files or private
files should be stored um in get annex
um
there are two important considerations
when you make the case-by-case decision
on which files should go into git annex
and which files should go into git
because there is a difference in how
these files or how interacting with this
file with these files feels
anything that you put into git is
modifiable right away like the readme
for that like the metadata files the
yamaha files that we created
anything that is put in git annex will
be right protected uh and i'm going to
show you how that looks uh soon
but um
the
jpegs that we included in the data set
they are for example actually annexed
and i would have a hard time if i were
to just simply try to
modify those files because the version
control tool is working in the
background to ensure the integrity um of
this file i'll show you how to work
around this uh soon too
and then uh you can put
you need to you need to remember that
nxt files are not available right after
cloning only stuff that is available or
kept in git is available right after
cloning so if there's something that you
really easily want to share
then consider putting it into git if
possible and not into the next readme
file it's probably not cool to be
annexed because then they need to
retrieve the contents uh but the readme
file maybe contains the explanations on
how to actually run the data related
so uh those are just two two
considerations to to keep in mind
so
a data set now internally has this
distinction
that has one part in git and one part
uh that is git nx
uh and
the only overlap
between git and git nx is this last
bullet point
right here that explains how version
control of
those large files works and that is uh
with something that's called file ident
file identity information
and we're going to take a look
uh into into how this
how this is is done internally
the um thing that we're going to look at
tomorrow
uh is how to actually then make sure
that the files that you annex in your
dataset can be retrieved using data.get
underneath the hood this works by
publishing them to any kind of service
of your choice google drive
the open science framework anything
and get annexed within make sure to
retrieve them from there
and that is the reason
why you can have very lean data sets
that live on git repository hosting
services that are cloned really fast
just as a normal git repository and not
bloat your repository which with those
large files that would render it
unusable are really slow um to work with
and we try to support as many
services as uh we can and there are lots
of services that we're currently working
on this anything that you want to be see
supported then just let us know
and as a final
piece of information
on
how to
how to actually act on this information
uh about this distinction between git
and guidance
the question of uh yeah uh and how do i
like what do i do with this piece of
information like how do i know what
things to annex how can i change the
defaults in which things are in next
so
you as a user have the opportunity to
configure data sets in the way that you
want and these configurations influence
whether files are next or not
it's really a case by case consideration
but there are a couple of things
that i can point you to in order to make
these decisions and to implement these
decisions
one thing that you have already used
when we run the datalit create command
is what is called run procedure those
are pre-made configurations that can be
for example used during create to apply
configurations that influence the
version control
tool decisions so the text to get
procedure that was used is a procedure
that will make sure that any text file
in your data set regardless of where it
is placed will be version controlled in
git and any non-text file will be
version controlled in the nx that's a
very useful
configuration for a lot of use cases
you can
also write your own procedures
this tutorial online if you are
interested in that
you can write rules
for example
i want to include every file that is
smaller than 20 megabytes in git and
everything that's larger should go into
good endings i want to include every
file in this directory
in git and everything else in git nx i
want to include everything in git is
also a perfectly valid
configuration
um
it's a pretty extensive rule set that
you can that you can make use of
and what you can also do
is you can do it on a per command basis
so data let's save has this additional
parameter to get and when you've run it
when you data let's save stuff then it
will actually put the save
modification the saved file into git
instead of git nx regardless of what the
configuration says
so with these configurations in place
data sets basically try to operate
cleverly but according to what you tell
them so that a data let's save
puts a file wherever it needs to go
either in git or in get annex either the
default everything is indexed or the
applied configuration for example
everything and that's text to get
everything else to the nx so that you
don't need to
um
so that you don't need to decide on on a
verb file cases but you can just detail
it safe and it will do
the right thing
um
now to um
add a little bit of multiple choice
question
about the text to git procedure here
i have a quick question
uh about binary versus text files
if you
open the
polling tool on your phone or in your
browser window
i have a multiple choice question to
identify
out of
all of the files here on the screen
which of them
are considered to be text files
that's
completely
every everyone already knows this is
this is really cool so yes all of them
are textures if you have the the
opportunity to to use these kinds of
file extensions definitely go for text
files i can recommend it uh
in all kind like on a general research
data management
perspective text files um are the
file format that you should try to
to adhere to
i have a different question and that is
identifying text files
in this next set
of
file names based on their extensions
and it also looks like everyone already
knows knows the answer here
so yeah
it might be counter-intuitive to some
people that
think that
word files.x files are
text files because you write text in it
but they are actually not text files but
binary files so whenever you have a
docx file a powerpoint presentation an
excel spreadsheet
those are files that get cannot
cannot work with well so you might think
those are text files but you shouldn't
you shouldn't really store them uh in
git if you have the choice
uh the text to get procedure will make
sure that all of the files that you
previously saw and identified as text
files would be saved in git but all of
these files here which are all
binary files they
would be annexed and the
idm cards actually has a complete
session on identifying file types and
the differences and also different file
formats
so if you want to
read up on that a little bit more then
you can you can head over there
and read it after the workshop
in case that's interesting to you
um one thing that is useful to
and i've already hinted at this but i
really wanted to drive the point home
but one thing that is useful in in this
artifact of how the version control
tools here work is that they give the
opportunity for kind of disk spell space
aware workflows so you can clone input
data that can be however large
it may be you have the opportunity to
check out all of the files that are
included in this input data without
wasting any disk space
because in most cases a public data set
that you are using will not
it will include files that you will not
need it will include modalities that you
want to need so downloading a big chunk
of data usually wastes more disk space
than uh is actually necessary and then
whatever contents
you may need for an analysis for
exploration you can retrieve the moon
on demand and whenever you don't need
them anymore you drop them again
and that
is a very disk space aware way of
being considerate to your computer to
your hard drive drive to your
high performance computing center
and so forth
so the way that
um the
get command
or
the reason why
the get command is able to retrieve your
files it's also an
internal detail of how
the git enix version control tool works
get nx is a really fantastic and
incredibly clever tool
that is capable
of keeping a decentral
distributed network of file content
availability in sync across a complete
network
of data sets
when you give a file to look at nx then
this
file
will have an internal location
information attached to it
this file availability information can
be shown if you were to for example run
git nx where is on the file so
because we included provenance file
availability information in the second
jpeg the tin strap underscore zero two
file
you could actually go to the jupyter hub
and run this to verify this
output for yourself
what this output shows you
is the internal location information on
all of the places where file content can
be retrieved
and if you have a file locally available
you will have this little thing here
that's called here that will indicate i
have the file contents of this file
right here and then any other location
information and there can be any amount
you can have 15 redundant
places from where to obtain file
contents from they are also listed here
and when there is a get command
issued then
um gitanex will take a look at each of
those available locations and it will
try to to retrieve the file from the one
which is most convenient
um
in case you have a file that
is only known in a single location so
let's say you created a new result
on your
um in your analysis
but it's nowhere nowhere else available
from or the
um chinstrap one
um
jpeg that would be available from uh web
sources but git nx doesn't know about
them because we haven't told him
it about it then you will not be able to
drop this file
um
it the version control tools the one
thing or the first thing that they
will desperately try to do is to avoid
data loss for you so if you were to um
save disk space by dropping file
contents it will not work for all files
it will by default only work for files
where the version control tools can be
sure that you know they can actually
actually re-obtain these contents for
you
and um you can also try this out now but
we'll do it together later
and that's that's one of the features
of the version control tools and and how
they internally work and if you have
[Music]
a file such as the chinstrap zero one
image where there in principle is a
remote source available from then you
can also tell your version control tools
about it so if you
have uh have any data that is available
also from different sources then you can
also register these different locations
uh with your version control tools they
will make sure that it's actually
available from there that's the exact
identical content and then you would be
able to drop those files
um
we have written a publication about this
concept because we think it's a really
resilient way of storing data it's much
more convenient and resilient than those
data silo solutions
um if you want to you can read about
this in this publication here
but
now for a different um
feature of
data integrity and data safety and
that's the right protection that i
hinted at
um so
the reason why annexed content so any
file that is stored in the nx is right
protected
is that
uh or is buried in the way that
git nx version controls files so i'm
quickly going to to show you how that
looks like
um
whenever you
use git nx or datalit on a file system
that allows it
it will
create
sim links symlinks
is similar to the windows concept of a
shortcut
where you basically have a reference
that let's say lies on your desktop but
it actually points to a different place
on your computer system
what git nx does and you can see that
this if you run
the list command with the dish l flag on
any next file such as the
um
the one jpeg here
you will see that
it looks like this is a
you know normal
file under the path that you saved it to
but this little error here
arrow here indicates that internally it
is a symlink that points into this
hidden.git directory and in there into
this directory nx objects and this is
the internal
space where git nx manages your version
controlled files
this has a number of advantages
for one if you would have a
repository a data set where there are
several copies of one in the same file
you actually would only have to store it
once
so you would if you have a hundred files
one gigabyte but they're all identical
for whatever reason the total
storage space your data set would would
need to take up as one gigabyte instead
of a hundred and that's that's an
advantage of using the sim link solution
what this sim link
hints at is the internal mechanism with
which version control for large files
works and why
there is a certain privacy encoded
in it
this
symlink looks incredibly unreadable
but one of its main components
is an identity hash file item to t hash
a file identity hash is an
encoding of the binary identity of the
contents of this file in a character
string
there are lots of
algorithms available to do this the one
that we'll use that we're using is md5
it's not the most secure algorithm you
can also configure
better sha one for example
if you want to
um
in any case it's an algorithm that
transforms the file contents into a
character string and based on that
character string the identity of the
file can be verified two files with
different identity will have different
char sums or different md5 sounds
whatever algorithm it is you're using
and if you have the contents of a file
you can md5 summit to get its shasa to
verify that content is indeed identical
but if you only have the sarsam then you
cannot reverse engineer this um this
this this hash to give you an idea about
the content so if you were to put a
private file into a repository
uh then the only file content indication
that would be
that would be available to to any
unauthorized person that gets a copy of
it would be this um this this identity
hash that they
can cannot really infer file contents
from
what getanix then does is it
tells it about the content hash so what
it actually version controls in git is
the sim link here that points with a
content identifier to the actual
internally managed file content and if
you do any modification to the file
content that is merged here
then
the identity has changes this is a
modification due to the
version control of the zim link in git
that git will notice so a version
controlled a next file that is
modified will be visible
as a modification
in git and that does the splits between
version controlling stuff with the most
powerful version control tool that we
have get
without checking their contents in
ticket but still keeping an identity
record
in the version control history so that
version control based on file identity
is possible
and the reason
for
write protection
of these file contents
is that if you were to
force overwrite the contents of the
version controlled file
um without without git nx having a say
in this the file identity hash of this
version controlled file um would change
and the zim link would point
into different place to a different hash
but git nx will not have had the
opportunity to require to record this
additional version of your file into the
history so what git nx does it write
protects those files and only lets you
modify them um
when you actually told git nx that you
have an annexed file that you want to
make a modification
to so this is one thing that you should
remember with the same
um at the same place where you start the
information on do not remove dot git or
the data or dot get attribute files from
your data set the other information that
goes in the very same direction is do
not force overwrite
any
um
any files in your data set
instead
tell
tell the tools about it and we're going
to
um take a look at how that works and
this is
operation telling the version control
tools about you willing to to modify
file that's called unlocking
and in order to to get to get to this
we're going to continue a little bit in
the
um
in the module here
if you scroll down to data processing
this will take you
with a little bit of a detour and a
teaser into reproducible processing
to the topic of unlocking things
um
and just to give a quick motivation
because this is the next
little teaser into
recording
computational provenance of what was
done
you might have had the
unfortunate situation that you needed to
reuse or re-understand a thing that you
have done in the past a script a program
anything but you didn't leave a proper
record of how it was actually to be
executed and it's not really clear
how to use it it's not really clear what
results came out of it
and
the commands that we're going to
introduce in passing with the next few
steps here they are going to show you a
way out of this this dilemma here
i'm
quickly going to post this into the chat
again
so in order to
[Music]
to
continue here in this narrative
we have a super useful data analysis uh
data modification exercise uh we
actually do some image processing in the
sense that we are attempting to do the
incredibly novel and important
scientific breakthrough
of converting images of penguins to
black and white
and for this um we're going to structure
the data set a little bit in this kind
of
toy example
data
analysis
fashion we're going to create a
directory code for a script
and
we're going to create
an outputs directory where we are going
to save all the black and white penguins
um
i'm going to whoops this that was the
wrong one
i'm going to
quickly
do this and you're invited to follow
along so you can see
that the data set now has a code
directory and an outputs directory
and we've prepared a little script
feel free to
actually download that and save it with
a day-to-day download url of you if you
want to practice here the code that's
included is just a wget that retains the
script
and then saves it
so now we have a
little piece of code that
will be able to to transform images from
color to black and white
you can
take a look into the script you can also
run it with the
help option to get some insights on how
it is to be used but
the
identity the contents of the scripts are
really not that important uh important
is um what we're going to do uh in in
in the following few commands so under
normal circumstances when you have
written software when you have written a
script um
and you are applying the script to your
data then what you typically do is you
take the the interpreter
whichever whichever software that may be
here it is python it might be r it might
be matlab it might be
cobalt
anything fortran c
uh you um specify this you can also put
it into a shebang and make it executable
whatever you want but this this really
basic script is to be run by calling
this interpreter python and then
uh using
specifying the script it should run
on
the
input
image and the output image and
that
is done here in python
but
works with
work similarly with any kind of
software that that you are using in your
day-to-day work
so if i'm if i'm running this
then
i will have created a new
um
output it's right here
if i run data let's status now because
nothing
in these directories is yet saved this
will this will be showing the the top
level outputs directory
um but we have this uh
beautiful black and white conversion of
penguins
um that that's
a breakthrough
um
now
that's untracked
so in order to you know version control
it we still need to run this daylight
save command super annoying uh so much
to do
oh god so many individual commands to
run
so let's explore a way in which this
is a little bit easier and also has a
little bit more provenance capture and
the the command that we're using for
this
um is called data.run datalit run is
essentially your wrapper it
takes any kind
of thing that you can put into a command
line call like this python invocation
and it will execute whatever you give to
it
but also
make a note
of any changes that um
that
it will make a note of any changes that
have occurred
as a consequence of running this um i
will before i demonstrate this i will
quickly make sure that i have a clean
data set state
that's good it's good practice
and
now let me demonstrate
how to do a data later on command
it starts with
the main data command followed by the
sub command run
you can see that i'm giving it
this optional but informative commit
message
and then
you can see that it includes the very
same
command and command line invocation that
i have done before for the second
penguin image
now if i run this
it will execute it
but it will have not only
um saved this automatically
uh so if i run detailed status now that
will be all clean or saved
but it will also have
created a
kind of weird looking record
so
if i run git show to show you the
contents
of the most recent commit in my commit
history
you can see something that hasn't been a
part of previous commit messages it
looks weird but it is a structured
machine readable record that essentially
um encodes what has been done
in these do not change lines below do
not change lines above
um
yeah warnings
and what
[Music]
datalog can do with such a record is
inspected and automatically
re-executed it's useful mostly for
machines
but it also has this human readable
component where you can at least infer
what has been done so if you were to
find this data set somewhere on the web
and clone it and then
you really want to know
how they were able to create black and
white images of penguins then you can
also just ask
the file
how it came to be
by
just saying okay give me the commit
entry that is associated um with this
specific file and it will say
this person has created it
at this point in time but not only that
it will also show you
which command was run in order to to
perform this action
we're going to
try this out later but what you can do
with this commit as well is to take the
commit identifier just as we have done
in for example git reward and use it to
re-execute
um this
command but
now to quickly
go from this reproducible execution
detour back to the data protection
let's do something that
will show you
in what way files are right protected
the
jpegs in this data set are binary files
because we configured the data set with
text to get
they are annexed and under nx version
control
so
modifying a file that is already saved
will create a situation in which the
version control tool will go and protect
it
so if i go and take this python snippet
here
and run it to
apply the very same script to the very
same file in an attempt to modify it and
what will happen
is that the tool that you're going to
use to do the modification will buff
it depends a bit on the tool how badly
it will buff
um
some tools really just say hey it's a
permission denied error
some tools might give you 10 20 lines of
internal arrows until they actually tell
you okay it's a permission denied error
so keep keep this kind of thing in mind
when you work with nx files that you
want to modify
that
a potential and very likely um issue
with modifying these files is that
they're actually
um right protected
um
these permission united errors they stem
from getanix that prevents any sort of
modification any attempt at modifying
this file
and the way to circumvent this
is
a little bit further down in this
this uh
code overview
and that is called data led unlock i'm
quickly going to run this and you can
run this too
and then um take a look at what has
actually changed by running late let
unlock
unlock by for example
running data led status
that shows a modification
or bit status that will
show
the
modification with a little bit more
defaults
what you can see
is what git refers to as a type change
and data led refers to as a modification
but what has happened underneath the
hood
is
shown here on the slides and that
is true on file systems that support sim
links
when you unlock a file to make it
writeable
what happens underneath the hood is that
the symlink is resolved so that there's
not a pointer into any internal
structure
where your file is internally versioned
but the file is actually transferred
back into the original
location for
the duration of this unlocking period
so that it becomes modifiable without
breaking the sim link that is associated
with it so instead of having the error
um that points to some weird directory
with the file identity hash you actually
have just a pointer to the file um that
has been has been
unlocked
and
when you try to rerun the python
modification or the python script that
would perform a modification on an
unlocked file
then this operation will succeed
there will still be
this
type change and now in addition
a modification
but what you can do in order to
lock the file again and save the
modification
uh let me quickly um
just
save this uh copy this is um
running data let's save and that would
in principle
save the modification lock the file
again and everything everything would be
would be neatly version controlled now
so
that's that's one way
of handling this and it was one way of
me showing you the concrete consequences
of um version controlling large files uh
of files with gitanex but it was a very
inconvenient thing
to
need to unlock and modify and save all
of these things it's definitely one way
to do it
so
you know about it
uh and um most of the files that uh you
might encounter in in in data sets that
you will work with in the future they
are actually nx files that do not that
frequently change so for example raw
data or pre-processed data all of that
is stuff that you might not actually
want to change so
this unlock command is not really
something that you will encounter
frequently in the wild or during your
during your own data like endeavors but
it's the
step-by-step
way to
to um
yeah revoke what to to make to make
these finds files modifiable and
rightful
what is uh more convenient than
doing the unlock and save dance though
uh is
to actually let um data advantage take
care of it uh this
is a command that not only
does the provenance capture that i've
already hinted it but it also has um
flags that
can ensure a couple of additional things
for one has a flag that's called input
that is a flag
that will
ensure that any files that you
put there as options or as as paths will
be retrieved from uh wherever they their
content might be stored using data.get
so that if you run an analysis and you
share it with a collaborator and they
are to rerun
your
previous analysis using that we run
they
automatically make sure that the input
is retrieved as well
and they don't have to perform a manual
data that get the other flag that data
run has
is the output flag
and output is a useful flag to include
in data later on commands because that
is a flag that performs the unlocking in
case there's a modification that needs
to take place it's a very careful
command so i usually
use it very liberately any directory any
file that you specify as output will be
unlocked just to make sure that it is
modifiable um in case uh there is a
modification made to it and then
the data led save that happens at the
end of the run
will make sure to lock it again so in
order to
make this a little bit less messy
instead of unlocking and saving
we can just craft a data that run
command that is a little bit more
um
structured a little bit more a little
bit longer
and it includes a specification of the
input image
and the specification of the output
image that
need may need to be unlocked in order to
apply any modification that the python
script could
do to it
um what you can also see
is a little convenient shortcut here
because we already
included this path specification in the
input in this path specification in the
output we're too lazy to write it again
into the invocation of the script so we
can say oh man just give me the inputs
and here give me the outputs
and that will not only create this um
this analysis that we wanted to do in
the providence tracked manner it also
made the just
well the gallery details of having
right protected stuff in a version
controlled then a version control system
less visible
and and easier to deal with
so
as a
quick task for you to try out
applying
the knowledge about commit hairs and ids
you can try to
actually
take this most recent run commit from
the history
and plug it into a data led rerun
command
and
[Music]
then if you're up to it
report how you did it what what kind of
strategy you did and also
what happened to your data set history
when you performed
the rerun
and if anyone succeeded then
and is willing to speak up then you can
just raise your hand or speak up and or
share your screen if you want to
now
did anyone
did anyone who tried it have problems
with um doing that telegram
not i'm just quickly going to show you
how it can be done
so you could
take a look into the commit history
and
take the first few characters from the
commit hash but because it's the most
recent commit you can also just say data
let me run
and it will rerun or it will identify
the most recent commit automatically
and reapply the python script now what
has happened internally
um
only becomes visible when we take a look
into the commit history now what i want
to draw your attention to is that
there's only a single
command that's prefixed with prefixed
with this data let run command even
though there was the first data let run
that we executed and then this rerun
importantly
data led rerun will only make a new
commit or
to phrase it a little bit better is only
able to make a new commit when the
outcome of its computation changes
uh anything in the dataset if i'm
re-running a script and i'm receiving
bit identical results then there will
not be a different or new commit in your
data set history and that's a very
useful indication
of any script that you
are running on your data any analysis
actually producing bit identical results
so if that's a use case that
you are interested in evaluating whether
or not your analysis is deterministic
enough to compute
computationally reproducible stuff and
that's also something that you can use
this quick indication for
so um
to give you a little bit of a summary
about this these details of how the
version control tools wagon and neither
hood
files in your dataset are either kept in
git organics and datalet safe is used
for both of these files but you can
ensure with configurations or with rules
or with flags um that
only those files go into the annex that
you actually want to be annexed or only
those files go to get that you actually
want to see and get that's a
consideration that you have to do based
on your personal needs and i hope i've
given you a little bit of context on
which
version control tool might be the most
suitable one
annexed files behave differently from
those kept in git they can be retrieved
and dropped on demand which is cool for
disk space aware workflows
they are right protected which is not so
cool if you um really want to modify
things frequently
and their content is unknown to git
which can be cool to keep things private
but it's not so cool if you want
something that for example can be
downloaded from github directly
when you datalit clone
a url or a path then you can install the
dataset that's available under this path
or url
but any nx trial contents are only
available
after you explicitly retrieve them
with get and can be dropped on demand
as well
anything that's starting yet is
available to you including their
contents right away
in case you want to
make annex files modifiable there's a
data led unlock command
and data let's say locks those files
again but it's generally easier
to
use the data run command
and in case you're now a little bit
worried that you might accidentally
annex files accidentally or um put files
accidentally and get there are means to
redo this or undo this for both types of
files
but it's generally much easier to
unannex files so to get them out of the
annex and put them back to git in case
you want things in git it's harder to do
it for files captain kit
both
[Music]
ways are detailed in in the data led
handbook there's a complete
walkthrough to all through all kinds of
file operations that you can do
um
then there's stagelet run it was only a
preview but it's a useful command to
record the impact that any command has
on a dataset
and when you provide input and output
then you can make sure that any
necessary data is retrieved and any
to be modified output is unlocked so
that this command um
works well and also reproducible and
helps your collaborators and your future
self to figure out what has been done
and then rerun can automatically
re-execute those running records
later
um
so
here's a
tiny
multiple choice question
while i wait for any questions on the
content
of this of this session
i know it's
a very unsexy topic but it's the one
it's the one
topic where most confusion arises and
knowing knowing these details is
as boring and as technical as they may
seem
um
this is the thing that will actually get
you very far in understanding and this
and and planning all kinds of use cases
that you may want um to use
data led for and i see that everyone is
already
excelling in the multiple choice quest